[vulkan phase1] Add SPIR-V IR (#6882)
halide/Halide: dependencies/spirv/CMakeLists.txt

include(FetchContent)
include(CMakeDependentOption)

cmake_dependent_option(
    FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS "Fetch SPIR-V headers from remote repo (disable and use SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR to use an existing checkout)." OFF
    TARGET_SPIRV OFF
)

if (FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS)
    set(SPIRV_VERSION 1.5.4)
    message(STATUS "Fetching SPIR-V ${SPIRV_VERSION}...")
    FetchContent_Declare(
        SPIRV-Headers
        GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SPIRV-Headers.git
        GIT_TAG ${SPIRV_VERSION}
        GIT_SHALLOW TRUE
        GIT_SUBMODULES ""
    )
    FetchContent_GetProperties(SPIRV-Headers)
    if (NOT SPIRV-Headers_POPULATED)
        FetchContent_Populate(SPIRV-Headers)
    endif ()
    set(SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR ${SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR}/include)    
else ()
    find_path(SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR spirv/1.0/spirv.h)
endif ()

if (NOT SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR)
    message(FATAL_ERROR "SPIRV-Headers were not found - please enable FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS or specify a valid path with 'SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR'!")
endif ()

message(STATUS "Using SPIR-V headers from ${SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR}...")
add_library(Halide_SPIRV INTERFACE IMPORTED)
target_include_directories(Halide_SPIRV 

>                            SYSTEM # Use -isystem instead of -I; this is a trick so that clang-tidy won't analyze these includes

Reviewer: [I think](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_tgt/NO_SYSTEM_FROM_IMPORTED.html) `SYSTEM` is unnecessary here since `Halide_SPIRV` is `IMPORTED`. It should also be renamed to `Halide::SPIRV` to ensure that CMake always treats this name as a target (and to therefore be defensive against future typos).

Author: I renamed the library target, but left the SYSTEM declaration so that the <> notation for the include file path still worked.

Author: Actually, this didn't work, and I reverted back to Halide_SPIRV target names since the dependencies need to exist before Halide itself, and Halide::SPIRV was getting silently ignored for linkage.

Reviewer: I would like to repro that since it's not at all what I would expect. Do you have some steps?

Author: Just changing the target name from `Halide_SPIRV` to `Halide::SPIRV` like this:

`add_library(Halide::SPIRV INTERFACE)`
`target_include_directories(Halide::SPIRV SYSTEM INTERFACE "${SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR}")`

Causes errors with cmake v3.23.2:

`CMake Error at dependencies/spirv/CMakeLists.txt:35 (add_library):
  The target name "Halide::SPIRV" is reserved or not valid for certain CMake
  features, such as generator expressions, and may result in undefined
  behavior.

CMake Error at dependencies/spirv/CMakeLists.txt:36 (target_include_directories):
  Cannot specify include directories for target "Halide::SPIRV" which is not
  built by this project.
`

Author: Using the old target name and adding an ALIAS for Halide::SPIRV like so:

````
add_library(Halide_SPIRV INTERFACE)
add_library(Halide::SPIRV ALIAS Halide_SPIRV)
target_include_directories(Halide_SPIRV SYSTEM INTERFACE "${SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR}")
````

And used like before:

````
if (TARGET Halide::SPIRV)
    target_link_libraries(Halide PRIVATE Halide::SPIRV)
endif()

````
DOES add the correct -isystem path to the compiler definitions ... but then we incur a dependency on Halide_TARGETS for the interface library Halide::SPIRV which isn't installed.

Reviewer: You would have to change from:
```
add_library(Halide_SPIRV INTERFACE)
```
to
```
add_library(Halide::SPIRV INTERFACE IMPORTED)
```
since names with colons `::` can only be used in `IMPORTED` and `ALIAS` targets. When a target is `IMPORTED` its `INTERFACE_INCLUDE_DIRECTORIES` property (which is set by `target_include_directories(... INTERFACE ...)`) is treated as `SYSTEM` by default.

> but then we incur a dependency on Halide_TARGETS for the interface library Halide::SPIRV which isn't installed

Since `Halide::SPIRV` is meant to be _totally_ private, just write
```
target_link_libraries(Halide PRIVATE "$<BUILD_INTERFACE:Halide::SPIRV>")
```
instead.

Author: Cool ... thanks for the detailed explanation!

include(FetchContent)
include(CMakeDependentOption)

> cmake_dependent_option(FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS "Fetch SPIR-V headers from remote repo (disable and use SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR to use an existing checkout)." ON TARGET_SPIRV ON)
> 
> if (TARGET_SPIRV)
>     if (DEFINED SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR)
>         if (IS_DIRECTORY ${SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR})
>             set(HALIDE_SPIRV_SOURCE_DIR ${SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR})
>             set(HALIDE_SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR ${SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR}/include)    
>         else()
>             message(FATAL_ERROR "SPIRV-Headers were not found - please specify a valid path with 'SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR'!")
>         endif()
>     elseif(FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS)
>         set(SPIRV_VERSION 1.5.4)
>         message(STATUS "Fetching SPIR-V ${SPIRV_VERSION}...")
>         FetchContent_Declare(SPIRV-Headers
>                             GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SPIRV-Headers.git
>                             GIT_TAG ${SPIRV_VERSION}
>                             GIT_SHALLOW TRUE
>                             GIT_SUBMODULES "")
> 
>         FetchContent_MakeAvailable(SPIRV-Headers)
> 
>         set(HALIDE_SPIRV_SOURCE_DIR ${SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR})
>         set(HALIDE_SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR ${SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR}/include)    
>     endif()
> 
>     if (DEFINED HALIDE_SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR)
>         add_library(Halide_SPIRV INTERFACE)
>         target_include_directories(Halide_SPIRV SYSTEM INTERFACE ${HALIDE_SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR})
>         message(STATUS "Using SPIR-V headers from ${HALIDE_SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR}...")
>     else()
>         message(FATAL_ERROR "SPIRV-Headers were not found - please enable FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS or specify a valid path with 'SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR'!")
>     endif()
> 
> endif()

Reviewer: Here is a correct implementation:

```suggestion
cmake_dependent_option(
    FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS "Fetch SPIR-V headers from remote repo (disable and use SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR to use an existing checkout)." OFF
    TARGET_SPIRV OFF
)

if (FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS)
    set(SPIRV_VERSION 1.5.4)
    message(STATUS "Fetching SPIR-V ${SPIRV_VERSION}...")
    FetchContent_Declare(
        SPIRV-Headers
        GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SPIRV-Headers.git
        GIT_TAG ${SPIRV_VERSION}
        GIT_SHALLOW TRUE
        GIT_SUBMODULES ""
    )

    FetchContent_MakeAvailable(SPIRV-Headers)

    set(SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR ${SPIRV-Headers_SOURCE_DIR}/include)    
else ()
    find_path(SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR spirv/1.0/spirv.h)
endif ()

if (NOT SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR)
    message(FATAL_ERROR "SPIRV-Headers were not found - please enable FETCH_SPIRV_HEADERS or specify a valid path with 'SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR'!")
endif ()

message(STATUS "Using SPIR-V headers from ${SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR}...")

add_library(Halide_SPIRV INTERFACE IMPORTED)
target_include_directories(Halide_SPIRV INTERFACE "${SPIRV_INCLUDE_DIR}")
```

Reviewer: I would prefer to move Halide away from using FetchContent for anything by default. It's okay (until we reach CMake 3.24) to include it as an opt-in convenience, but we've already had issues raised with people trying to build us in air-gapped environments. Better to get an error message we control than one that some internal CMake module controls.

In the case when FetchContent is not used, we should at least _try_ to look for the header we're using. That's the purpose of the `find_path` command.

Int he case when FetchContent is used, since we are not using their CMake targets (and are instead making our own), we shouldn't use `MakeAvailable` since that will run all of their CMake code inside our project. Instead, we'll just `Populate` it to trigger the download, but nothing else.
